--- Abstract (Page 1) ---
Large pre-trained language models have been shown to store factual knowledge
in their parameters, and achieve state-of-the-art results when ﬁne-tuned on down-
stream NLP tasks. However, their ability to access and precisely manipulate knowl-
edge is still limited, and hence on knowledge-intensive ta...

--- 1 Introduction (Page 1) ---
Pre-trained neural language models have been shown to learn a substantial amount of in-depth knowl-
edge from data [47]. They can do so without any access to an external memory, as a parameterized
implicit knowledge base [51, 52]. While this development is exciting, such models do have down-
sides: ...

--- 2 Methods (Page 2) ---
We explore RAG models, which use the input sequence x to retrieve text documents z and use them
as additional context when generating the target sequence y. As shown in Figure 1, our models
leverage two components: (i) a retriever p (z|x) with parameters η that returns (top-K truncated)
η
distributi...

--- 2.1 Models (Page 3) ---
RAG-Sequence Model The RAG-Sequence model uses the same retrieved document to generate
the complete sequence. Technically, it treats the retrieved document as a single latent variable that
is marginalized to get the seq2seq probability p(y|x) via a top-K approximation. Concretely, the
top K document...

--- 2.2 Retriever: DPR (Page 3) ---
The retrieval component p (z|x) is based on DPR [26]. DPR follows a bi-encoder architecture:
η
(cid:0) (cid:1)
p (z|x) ∝ exp d(z)(cid:62)q(x) d(z) = BERT (z), q(x) = BERT (x)
η d q
where d(z) is a dense representation of a document produced by a BERT document encoder [8],
BASE
and q(x) a query repre...

--- 2.3 Generator: BART (Page 3) ---
The generator component p (y |x,z,y ) could be modelled using any encoder-decoder. We use
θ i 1:i−1
BART-large [32], a pre-trained seq2seq transformer [58] with 400M parameters. To combine the input
x with the retrieved content z when generating from BART, we simply concatenate them. BART was
pre-tr...

--- 2.4 Training (Page 3) ---
We jointly train the retriever and generator components without any direct supervision on what
document should be retrieved. Given a ﬁne-tuning training corpus of input/output pairs (x ,y ), we
j j
3
(cid:80)
minimize the negative marginal log-likelihood of each target, −logp(y |x ) using stochastic...

--- 2.5 Decoding (Page 4) ---
At test time, RAG-Sequence and RAG-Token require different ways to approximate argmax p(y|x).
y
RAG-Token The RAG-Token model can be seen as a standard, autoregressive seq2seq genera-
(cid:80)
tor with transition probability: p(cid:48) (y |x,y ) = p (z |x)p (y |x,z ,y ) To
θ i 1:i−1 z∈top-k(p(·|x)) ...

--- 3 Experiments (Page 4) ---
We experiment with RAG in a wide range of knowledge-intensive tasks. For all experiments, we use
a single Wikipedia dump for our non-parametric knowledge source. Following Lee et al. [31] and
Karpukhin et al. [26], we use the December 2018 dump. Each Wikipedia article is split into disjoint
100-word...

--- 3.1 Open-domain Question Answering (Page 4) ---
Open-domain question answering (QA) is an important real-world application and common testbed
for knowledge-intensive tasks [20]. We treat questions and answers as input-output text pairs (x,y)
and train RAG by directly minimizing the negative log-likelihood of answers. We compare RAG to
the popular...

--- 3.2 Abstractive Question Answering (Page 4) ---
RAG models can go beyond simple extractive QA and answer questions with free-form, abstractive
text generation. To test RAG’s natural language generation (NLG) in a knowledge-intensive setting,
we use the MSMARCO NLG task v2.1 [43]. The task consists of questions, ten gold passages
retrieved from a ...

--- 3.3 Jeopardy Question Generation (Page 5) ---
To evaluate RAG’s generation abilities in a non-QA setting, we study open-domain question gen-
eration. Rather than use questions from standard open-domain QA tasks, which typically consist
of short, simple questions, we propose the more demanding task of generating Jeopardy questions.
Jeopardy is a...

--- 3.4 Fact Veriﬁcation (Page 5) ---
FEVER [56] requires classifying whether a natural language claim is supported or refuted by
Wikipedia, or whether there is not enough information to decide. The task requires retrieving
evidence from Wikipedia relating to the claim and then reasoning over this evidence to classify
whether the claim ...

--- 4 Results (Page 5) ---
...

--- 4.1 Open-domain Question Answering (Page 5) ---
Table 1 shows results for RAG along with state-of-the-art models. On all four open-domain QA
tasks, RAG sets a new state of the art (only on the T5-comparable split for TQA). RAG combines
the generation ﬂexibility of the “closed-book” (parametric only) approaches and the performance of
"open-book" r...

--- 4.2 Abstractive Question Answering (Page 6) ---
As shown in Table 2, RAG-Sequence outperforms BART on Open MS-MARCO NLG by 2.6 Bleu
points and 2.6 Rouge-L points. RAG approaches state-of-the-art model performance, which is
impressive given that (i) those models access gold passages with speciﬁc information required to
generate the reference answe...

--- 4.3 Jeopardy Question Generation (Page 6) ---
Table 2 shows that RAG-Token performs better than RAG-Sequence on Jeopardy question generation,
with both models outperforming BART on Q-BLEU-1. 4 shows human evaluation results, over 452
pairs of generations from BART and RAG-Token. Evaluators indicated that BART was more factual
than RAG in only 7...

--- 4.4 Fact Veriﬁcation (Page 6) ---
Table 2 shows our results on FEVER. For 3-way classiﬁcation, RAG scores are within 4.3% of
state-of-the-art models, which are complex pipeline systems with domain-speciﬁc architectures and
substantial engineering, trained using intermediate retrieval supervision, which RAG does not require.
6
Docume...

--- 4.5 Additional Results (Page 7) ---
Generation Diversity Section 4.3 shows that RAG models are more factual and speciﬁc than
BART for Jeopardy question generation. Following recent work on diversity-promoting decoding
[33, 59, 39], we also investigate generation diversity by calculating the ratio of distinct ngrams to
total ngrams gen...

--- 5 Related Work (Page 8) ---
Single-Task Retrieval Prior work has shown that retrieval improves performance across a variety of
NLP tasks when considered in isolation. Such tasks include open-domain question answering [5, 29],
fact checking [56], fact completion [48], long-form question answering [12], Wikipedia article
generat...

--- 6 Discussion (Page 9) ---
In this work, we presented hybrid generation models with access to parametric and non-parametric
memory. We showed that our RAG models obtain state of the art results on open-domain QA. We
found that people prefer RAG’s generation over purely parametric BART, ﬁnding RAG more factual
and speciﬁc. We ...

--- Broader Impact (Page 10) ---
This work offers several positive societal beneﬁts over previous work: the fact that it is more
strongly grounded in real factual knowledge (in this case Wikipedia) makes it “hallucinate” less
with generations that are more factual, and offers more control and interpretability. RAG could be
employed...

--- Acknowledgments (Page 10) ---
The authors would like to thank the reviewers for their thoughtful and constructive feedback on this
paper, as well as HuggingFace for their help in open-sourcing code to run RAG models. The authors
would also like to thank Kyunghyun Cho and Sewon Min for productive discussions and advice. EP
thanks...

