Abstract
Large pre-trained language models have been shown to store factual knowledge
in their parameters, and achieve state-of-the-art results when ﬁne-tuned on down-
stream NLP tasks. However, their ability to access and precisely manipulate knowl-
edge is still limited, and hence on knowledge-intensive tasks, their performance
lags behind task-speciﬁc architectures. Additionally, providing provenance for their
decisions and updating their world knowledge remain open research problems. Pre-
trained models with a differentiable access mechanism to explicit non-parametric
memory have so far been only investigated for extractive downstream tasks. We
explore a general-purpose ﬁne-tuning recipe for retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) — models which combine pre-trained parametric and non-parametric mem-
ory for language generation. We introduce RAG models where the parametric
memory is a pre-trained seq2seq model and the non-parametric memory is a dense
vector index of Wikipedia, accessed with a pre-trained neural retriever. We com-
pare two RAG formulations, one which conditions on the same retrieved passages
across the whole generated sequence, and another which can use different passages
per token. We ﬁne-tune and evaluate our models on a wide range of knowledge-
intensive NLP tasks and set the state of the art on three open domain QA tasks,
outperforming parametric seq2seq models and task-speciﬁc retrieve-and-extract
architectures. For language generation tasks, we ﬁnd that RAG models generate
more speciﬁc, diverse and factual language than a state-of-the-art parametric-only
seq2seq baseline.
1 Introduction
Pre-trained neural language models have been shown to learn a substantial amount of in-depth knowl-
edge from data [47]. They can do so without any access to an external memory, as a parameterized
implicit knowledge base [51, 52]. While this development is exciting, such models do have down-
sides: They cannot easily expand or revise their memory, can’t straightforwardly provide insight into
their predictions, and may produce “hallucinations” [38]. Hybrid models that combine parametric
memory with non-parametric (i.e., retrieval-based) memories [20, 26, 48] can address some of these
issues because knowledge can be directly revised and expanded, and accessed knowledge can be
inspected and interpreted. REALM [20] and ORQA [31], two recently introduced models that
combine masked language models [8] with a differentiable retriever, have shown promising results,

The	middle	ear	includes
Define	"middle	ear"(x)
End-to-End Backprop through q and p the	tympanic	cavity	and
θ
Question Answering: the	three	ossicles.		(y)
Question Query Query Retriever p Document Generator p Question Answering:
η θ
Encoder Index Answer Generation
(Non-Parametric) (Parametric)
Barack	Obama	was d(z)
q(x) z supports	(y)
born	in	Hawaii.(x) 4
z Margin- Fact Veriﬁcation:
Fact Veriﬁcation: Fact Query 3
Label Generation
z2 alize
The	Divine q MIPS z p
1 θ This	14th	century	work
Comedy	(x)
is	divided	into	3
Jeopardy Question sections:	"Inferno",
Generation: "Purgatorio"	&
Answer Query "Paradiso"									(y)
Question Generation
Figure 1: Overview of our approach. We combine a pre-trained retriever (Query Encoder + Document
Index) with a pre-trained seq2seq model (Generator) and ﬁne-tune end-to-end. For query x, we use
Maximum Inner Product Search (MIPS) to ﬁnd the top-K documents z . For ﬁnal prediction y, we
i
treat z as a latent variable and marginalize over seq2seq predictions given different documents.
but have only explored open-domain extractive question answering. Here, we bring hybrid parametric
and non-parametric memory to the “workhorse of NLP,” i.e. sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models.
We endow pre-trained, parametric-memory generation models with a non-parametric memory through
a general-purpose ﬁne-tuning approach which we refer to as retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).
We build RAG models where the parametric memory is a pre-trained seq2seq transformer, and the
non-parametric memory is a dense vector index of Wikipedia, accessed with a pre-trained neural
retriever. We combine these components in a probabilistic model trained end-to-end (Fig. 1). The
retriever (Dense Passage Retriever [26], henceforth DPR) provides latent documents conditioned on
the input, and the seq2seq model (BART [32]) then conditions on these latent documents together with
the input to generate the output. We marginalize the latent documents with a top-K approximation,
either on a per-output basis (assuming the same document is responsible for all tokens) or a per-token
basis (where different documents are responsible for different tokens). Like T5 [51] or BART, RAG
can be ﬁne-tuned on any seq2seq task, whereby both the generator and retriever are jointly learned.
Therehasbeenextensivepreviousworkproposingarchitecturestoenrichsystemswithnon-parametric
memory which are trained from scratch for speciﬁc tasks, e.g. memory networks [64, 55], stack-
augmented networks [25] and memory layers [30]. In contrast, we explore a setting where both
parametric and non-parametric memory components are pre-trained and pre-loaded with extensive
knowledge. Crucially, by using pre-trained access mechanisms, the ability to access knowledge is
present without additional training.
Our results highlight the beneﬁts of combining parametric and non-parametric memory with genera-
tion for knowledge-intensive tasks—tasks that humans could not reasonably be expected to perform
without access to an external knowledge source. Our RAG models achieve state-of-the-art results
on open Natural Questions [29], WebQuestions [3] and CuratedTrec [2] and strongly outperform
recent approaches that use specialised pre-training objectives on TriviaQA [24]. Despite these being
extractive tasks, we ﬁnd that unconstrained generation outperforms previous extractive approaches.
For knowledge-intensive generation, we experiment with MS-MARCO [1] and Jeopardy question
generation, and we ﬁnd that our models generate responses that are more factual, speciﬁc, and
diverse than a BART baseline. For FEVER [56] fact veriﬁcation, we achieve results within 4.3% of
state-of-the-art pipeline models which use strong retrieval supervision. Finally, we demonstrate that
the non-parametric memory can be replaced to update the models’ knowledge as the world changes.1
2 Methods
We explore RAG models, which use the input sequence x to retrieve text documents z and use them
as additional context when generating the target sequence y. As shown in Figure 1, our models
leverage two components: (i) a retriever p (z|x) with parameters η that returns (top-K truncated)
η
distributions over text passages given a query x and (ii) a generator p (y |x,z,y ) parametrized
θ i 1:i−1
1Code to run experiments with RAG has been open-sourced as part of the HuggingFace Transform-
ers Library [66] and can be found at https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/
examples/rag/. An interactive demo of RAG models can be found at https://huggingface.co/rag/
2

by θ that generates a current token based on a context of the previous i−1 tokens y , the original
1:i−1
input x and a retrieved passage z.
To train the retriever and generator end-to-end, we treat the retrieved document as a latent variable.
We propose two models that marginalize over the latent documents in different ways to produce a
distribution over generated text. In one approach, RAG-Sequence, the model uses the same document
to predict each target token. The second approach, RAG-Token, can predict each target token based
on a different document. In the following, we formally introduce both models and then describe the
p and p components, as well as the training and decoding procedure.
η θ
2.1 Models
RAG-Sequence Model The RAG-Sequence model uses the same retrieved document to generate
the complete sequence. Technically, it treats the retrieved document as a single latent variable that
is marginalized to get the seq2seq probability p(y|x) via a top-K approximation. Concretely, the
top K documents are retrieved using the retriever, and the generator produces the output sequence
probability for each document, which are then marginalized,
N
(cid:88) (cid:88) (cid:89)
p (y|x) ≈ p (z|x)p (y|x,z) = p (z|x) p (y |x,z,y )
RAG-Sequence η θ η θ i 1:i−1
z∈top-k(p(·|x)) z∈top-k(p(·|x)) i
RAG-Token Model In the RAG-Token model we can draw a different latent document for each
target token and marginalize accordingly. This allows the generator to choose content from several
documents when producing an answer. Concretely, the top K documents are retrieved using the
retriever, and then the generator produces a distribution for the next output token for each document,
before marginalizing, and repeating the process with the following output token, Formally, we deﬁne:
N
(cid:89) (cid:88)
p (y|x) ≈ p (z|x)p (y |x,z,y )
RAG-Token η θ i 1:i−1
i z∈top-k(p(·|x))
Finally, we note that RAG can be used for sequence classiﬁcation tasks by considering the target class
as a target sequence of length one, in which case RAG-Sequence and RAG-Token are equivalent.
2.2 Retriever: DPR
The retrieval component p (z|x) is based on DPR [26]. DPR follows a bi-encoder architecture:
η
(cid:0) (cid:1)
p (z|x) ∝ exp d(z)(cid:62)q(x) d(z) = BERT (z), q(x) = BERT (x)
η d q
where d(z) is a dense representation of a document produced by a BERT document encoder [8],
BASE
and q(x) a query representation produced by a query encoder, also based on BERT . Calculating
BASE
top-k(p (·|x)), the list of k documents z with highest prior probability p (z|x), is a Maximum Inner
η η
Product Search (MIPS) problem, which can be approximately solved in sub-linear time [23]. We use
a pre-trained bi-encoder from DPR to initialize our retriever and to build the document index. This
retriever was trained to retrieve documents which contain answers to TriviaQA [24] questions and
Natural Questions [29]. We refer to the document index as the non-parametric memory.
2.3 Generator: BART
The generator component p (y |x,z,y ) could be modelled using any encoder-decoder. We use
θ i 1:i−1
BART-large [32], a pre-trained seq2seq transformer [58] with 400M parameters. To combine the input
x with the retrieved content z when generating from BART, we simply concatenate them. BART was
pre-trained using a denoising objective and a variety of different noising functions. It has obtained
state-of-the-art results on a diverse set of generation tasks and outperforms comparably-sized T5
models [32]. We refer to the BART generator parameters θ as the parametric memory henceforth.
2.4 Training
We jointly train the retriever and generator components without any direct supervision on what
document should be retrieved. Given a ﬁne-tuning training corpus of input/output pairs (x ,y ), we
j j
3

(cid:80)
minimize the negative marginal log-likelihood of each target, −logp(y |x ) using stochastic
j j j
gradient descent with Adam [28]. Updating the document encoder BERT during training is costly as
d
it requires the document index to be periodically updated as REALM does during pre-training [20].
We do not ﬁnd this step necessary for strong performance, and keep the document encoder (and
index) ﬁxed, only ﬁne-tuning the query encoder BERT and the BART generator.
q
2.5 Decoding
At test time, RAG-Sequence and RAG-Token require different ways to approximate argmax p(y|x).
y
RAG-Token The RAG-Token model can be seen as a standard, autoregressive seq2seq genera-
(cid:80)
tor with transition probability: p(cid:48) (y |x,y ) = p (z |x)p (y |x,z ,y ) To
θ i 1:i−1 z∈top-k(p(·|x)) η i θ i i 1:i−1
decode, we can plug p(cid:48) (y |x,y ) into a standard beam decoder.
θ i 1:i−1
RAG-Sequence For RAG-Sequence, the likelihood p(y|x) does not break into a conventional per-
token likelihood, hence we cannot solve it with a single beam search. Instead, we run beam search for
each document z, scoring each hypothesis using p (y |x,z,y ). This yields a set of hypotheses
θ i 1:i−1
Y , some of which may not have appeared in the beams of all documents. To estimate the probability
of an hypothesis y we run an additional forward pass for each document z for which y does not
appear in the beam, multiply generator probability with p (z|x) and then sum the probabilities across
η
beams for the marginals. We refer to this decoding procedure as “Thorough Decoding.” For longer
output sequences, |Y | can become large, requiring many forward passes. For more efﬁcient decoding,
we can make a further approximation that p (y|x,z ) ≈ 0 where y was not generated during beam
θ i
search from x,z . This avoids the need to run additional forward passes once the candidate set Y has
i
been generated. We refer to this decoding procedure as “Fast Decoding.”
3 Experiments
We experiment with RAG in a wide range of knowledge-intensive tasks. For all experiments, we use
a single Wikipedia dump for our non-parametric knowledge source. Following Lee et al. [31] and
Karpukhin et al. [26], we use the December 2018 dump. Each Wikipedia article is split into disjoint
100-word chunks, to make a total of 21M documents. We use the document encoder to compute an
embedding for each document, and build a single MIPS index using FAISS [23] with a Hierarchical
Navigable Small World approximation for fast retrieval [37]. During training, we retrieve the top
k documents for each query. We consider k ∈ {5,10} for training and set k for test time using dev
data. We now discuss experimental details for each task.
3.1 Open-domain Question Answering
Open-domain question answering (QA) is an important real-world application and common testbed
for knowledge-intensive tasks [20]. We treat questions and answers as input-output text pairs (x,y)
and train RAG by directly minimizing the negative log-likelihood of answers. We compare RAG to
the popular extractive QA paradigm [5, 7, 31, 26], where answers are extracted spans from retrieved
documents, relying primarily on non-parametric knowledge. We also compare to “Closed-Book
QA” approaches [52], which, like RAG, generate answers, but which do not exploit retrieval, instead
relying purely on parametric knowledge. We consider four popular open-domain QA datasets: Natural
Questions (NQ) [29], TriviaQA (TQA) [24]. WebQuestions (WQ) [3] and CuratedTrec (CT) [2]. As
CT and WQ are small, we follow DPR [26] by initializing CT and WQ models with our NQ RAG
model. We use the same train/dev/test splits as prior work [31, 26] and report Exact Match (EM)
scores. For TQA, to compare with T5 [52], we also evaluate on the TQA Wiki test set.
3.2 Abstractive Question Answering
RAG models can go beyond simple extractive QA and answer questions with free-form, abstractive
text generation. To test RAG’s natural language generation (NLG) in a knowledge-intensive setting,
we use the MSMARCO NLG task v2.1 [43]. The task consists of questions, ten gold passages
retrieved from a search engine for each question, and a full sentence answer annotated from the
retrieved passages. We do not use the supplied passages, only the questions and answers, to treat
4

MSMARCO as an open-domain abstractive QA task. MSMARCO has some questions that cannot be
answered in a way that matches the reference answer without access to the gold passages, such as
“What is the weather in Volcano, CA?” so performance will be lower without using gold passages.
We also note that some MSMARCO questions cannot be answered using Wikipedia alone. Here,
RAG can rely on parametric knowledge to generate reasonable responses.
3.3 Jeopardy Question Generation
To evaluate RAG’s generation abilities in a non-QA setting, we study open-domain question gen-
eration. Rather than use questions from standard open-domain QA tasks, which typically consist
of short, simple questions, we propose the more demanding task of generating Jeopardy questions.
Jeopardy is an unusual format that consists of trying to guess an entity from a fact about that entity.
For example, “The World Cup” is the answer to the question “In 1986 Mexico scored as the ﬁrst
country to host this international sports competition twice.” As Jeopardy questions are precise,
factual statements, generating Jeopardy questions conditioned on their answer entities constitutes a
challenging knowledge-intensive generation task.
We use the splits from SearchQA [10], with 100K train, 14K dev, and 27K test examples. As
this is a new task, we train a BART model for comparison. Following [67], we evaluate using the
SQuAD-tuned Q-BLEU-1 metric [42]. Q-BLEU is a variant of BLEU with a higher weight for
matching entities and has higher correlation with human judgment for question generation than
standard metrics. We also perform two human evaluations, one to assess generation factuality, and
one for speciﬁcity. We deﬁne factuality as whether a statement can be corroborated by trusted external
sources, and speciﬁcity as high mutual dependence between the input and output [33]. We follow
best practice and use pairwise comparative evaluation [34]. Evaluators are shown an answer and two
generated questions, one from BART and one from RAG. They are then asked to pick one of four
options—quuestion A is better, question B is better, both are good, or neither is good.
3.4 Fact Veriﬁcation
FEVER [56] requires classifying whether a natural language claim is supported or refuted by
Wikipedia, or whether there is not enough information to decide. The task requires retrieving
evidence from Wikipedia relating to the claim and then reasoning over this evidence to classify
whether the claim is true, false, or unveriﬁable from Wikipedia alone. FEVER is a retrieval problem
coupled with an challenging entailment reasoning task. It also provides an appropriate testbed for
exploring the RAG models’ ability to handle classiﬁcation rather than generation. We map FEVER
class labels (supports, refutes, or not enough info) to single output tokens and directly train with
claim-class pairs. Crucially, unlike most other approaches to FEVER, we do not use supervision on
retrieved evidence. In many real-world applications, retrieval supervision signals aren’t available, and
models that do not require such supervision will be applicable to a wider range of tasks. We explore
two variants: the standard 3-way classiﬁcation task (supports/refutes/not enough info) and the 2-way
(supports/refutes) task studied in Thorne and Vlachos [57]. In both cases we report label accuracy.
4 Results
4.1 Open-domain Question Answering
Table 1 shows results for RAG along with state-of-the-art models. On all four open-domain QA
tasks, RAG sets a new state of the art (only on the T5-comparable split for TQA). RAG combines
the generation ﬂexibility of the “closed-book” (parametric only) approaches and the performance of
"open-book" retrieval-based approaches. Unlike REALM and T5+SSM, RAG enjoys strong results
without expensive, specialized “salient span masking” pre-training [20]. It is worth noting that RAG’s
retriever is initialized using DPR’s retriever, which uses retrieval supervision on Natural Questions
and TriviaQA. RAG compares favourably to the DPR QA system, which uses a BERT-based “cross-
encoder” to re-rank documents, along with an extractive reader. RAG demonstrates that neither a
re-ranker nor extractive reader is necessary for state-of-the-art performance.
There are several advantages to generating answers even when it is possible to extract them. Docu-
ments with clues about the answer but do not contain the answer verbatim can still contribute towards
a correct answer being generated, which is not possible with standard extractive approaches, leading
5

Table 1: Open-Domain QA Test Scores. For TQA, Table 2: Generation and classiﬁcation Test Scores.
left column uses the standard test set for Open- MS-MARCO SotA is [4], FEVER-3 is [68] and
Domain QA, right column uses the TQA-Wiki FEVER-2 is [57] *Uses gold context/evidence.
test set. See Appendix D for further details. Best model without gold access underlined.
Model NQ TQA WQ CT
Model Jeopardy MSMARCO FVR3 FVR2
Closed T5-11B [52] 34.5 - /50.1 37.4 -
B-1 QB-1 R-L B-1 Label Acc.
Book T5-11B+SSM[52] 36.6 - /60.5 44.7 -
SotA - - 49.8* 49.9* 76.8 92.2*
Open REALM [20] 40.4 - / - 40.7 46.8
Book DPR [26] 41.5 57.9/ - 41.1 50.6 BART 15.1 19.7 38.2 41.6 64.0 81.1
RAG-Token 44.1 55.2/66.1 45.5 50.0 RAG-Tok. 17.3 22.2 40.1 41.5
72.5 89.5
RAG-Seq. 44.5 56.8/68.0 45.2 52.2 RAG-Seq. 14.7 21.4 40.8 44.2
to more effective marginalization over documents. Furthermore, RAG can generate correct answers
even when the correct answer is not in any retrieved document, achieving 11.8% accuracy in such
cases for NQ, where an extractive model would score 0%.
4.2 Abstractive Question Answering
As shown in Table 2, RAG-Sequence outperforms BART on Open MS-MARCO NLG by 2.6 Bleu
points and 2.6 Rouge-L points. RAG approaches state-of-the-art model performance, which is
impressive given that (i) those models access gold passages with speciﬁc information required to
generate the reference answer , (ii) many questions are unanswerable without the gold passages, and
(iii) not all questions are answerable from Wikipedia alone. Table 3 shows some generated answers
from our models. Qualitatively, we ﬁnd that RAG models hallucinate less and generate factually
correct text more often than BART. Later, we also show that RAG generations are more diverse than
BART generations (see §4.5).
4.3 Jeopardy Question Generation
Table 2 shows that RAG-Token performs better than RAG-Sequence on Jeopardy question generation,
with both models outperforming BART on Q-BLEU-1. 4 shows human evaluation results, over 452
pairs of generations from BART and RAG-Token. Evaluators indicated that BART was more factual
than RAG in only 7.1% of cases, while RAG was more factual in 42.7% of cases, and both RAG and
BART were factual in a further 17% of cases, clearly demonstrating the effectiveness of RAG on
the task over a state-of-the-art generation model. Evaluators also ﬁnd RAG generations to be more
speciﬁc by a large margin. Table 3 shows typical generations from each model.
Jeopardy questions often contain two separate pieces of information, and RAG-Token may perform
best because it can generate responses that combine content from several documents. Figure 2 shows
an example. When generating “Sun”, the posterior is high for document 2 which mentions “The
Sun Also Rises”. Similarly, document 1 dominates the posterior when “A Farewell to Arms” is
generated. Intriguingly, after the ﬁrst token of each book is generated, the document posterior ﬂattens.
This observation suggests that the generator can complete the titles without depending on speciﬁc
documents. In other words, the model’s parametric knowledge is sufﬁcient to complete the titles. We
ﬁnd evidence for this hypothesis by feeding the BART-only baseline with the partial decoding "The
Sun. BART completes the generation "The Sun Also Rises" is a novel by this author of "The Sun
Also Rises" indicating the title "The Sun Also Rises" is stored in BART’s parameters. Similarly,
BART will complete the partial decoding "The Sun Also Rises" is a novel by this author of "A
with "The Sun Also Rises" is a novel by this author of "A Farewell to Arms". This example shows
how parametric and non-parametric memories work together—the non-parametric component helps
to guide the generation, drawing out speciﬁc knowledge stored in the parametric memory.
4.4 Fact Veriﬁcation
Table 2 shows our results on FEVER. For 3-way classiﬁcation, RAG scores are within 4.3% of
state-of-the-art models, which are complex pipeline systems with domain-speciﬁc architectures and
substantial engineering, trained using intermediate retrieval supervision, which RAG does not require.
6

Document1:hisworksareconsideredclassicsofAmerican Doc1
literature...Hiswartimeexperiencesformedthebasisforhisnovel Doc2
”AFarewelltoArms”(1929)...
Doc3
Document2:...artistsofthe1920s”LostGeneration”expatriate
Doc4
community.Hisdebutnovel,”TheSunAlsoRises”,waspublished
in1926. Doc5
S” e n oR es”isa ely is orof”A ello ms”
O hu s s vb h aret
B TSAl i o t h F w r
n ut A
a
Figure 2: RAG-Token document posterior p(z |x,y ,y ) for each generated token for input “Hem-
i i −i
ingway" for Jeopardy generation with 5 retrieved documents. The posterior for document 1 is high
when generating “A Farewell to Arms" and for document 2 when generating “The Sun Also Rises".
Table 3: Examples from generation tasks. RAG models generate more speciﬁc and factually accurate
responses. ‘?’ indicates factually incorrect responses, * indicates partially correct responses.
Task Input Model Generation
BART ?Themiddleearisthepartoftheearbetweenthemiddleearandthenose.
deﬁnemiddle
RAG-T Themiddleearistheportionoftheearinternaltotheeardrum.
ear
MS- RAG-S Themiddleearincludesthetympaniccavityandthethreeossicles.
MARCO
whatcurrency BART ThecurrencyneededinScotlandisPoundsterling.
neededin RAG-T PoundisthecurrencyneededinScotland.
scotland RAG-S ThecurrencyneededinScotlandisthepoundsterling.
BART ?ThisstatehasthelargestnumberofcountiesintheU.S.
Jeopardy Washington RAG-T It’stheonlyU.S.statenamedforaU.S.president
Question RAG-S It’sthestatewhereyou’llﬁndMountRainierNationalPark
Gener
BART *ThisepicpoembyDanteisdividedinto3parts: theInferno,thePurgatorio&thePurgatorio
-ation TheDivine
RAG-T Dante’s"Inferno"istheﬁrstpartofthisepicpoem
Comedy
RAG-S This14thcenturyworkisdividedinto3sections: "Inferno","Purgatorio"&"Paradiso"
For 2-way classiﬁcation, we compare against Thorne and Vlachos [57], who train RoBERTa [35]
to classify the claim as true or false given the gold evidence sentence. RAG achieves an accuracy
within 2.7% of this model, despite being supplied with only the claim and retrieving its own evidence.
We also analyze whether documents retrieved by RAG correspond to documents annotated as gold
evidence in FEVER. We calculate the overlap in article titles between the top k documents retrieved
by RAG and gold evidence annotations. We ﬁnd that the top retrieved document is from a gold article
in 71% of cases, and a gold article is present in the top 10 retrieved articles in 90% of cases.
4.5 Additional Results
Generation Diversity Section 4.3 shows that RAG models are more factual and speciﬁc than
BART for Jeopardy question generation. Following recent work on diversity-promoting decoding
[33, 59, 39], we also investigate generation diversity by calculating the ratio of distinct ngrams to
total ngrams generated by different models. Table 5 shows that RAG-Sequence’s generations are
more diverse than RAG-Token’s, and both are signiﬁcantly more diverse than BART without needing
any diversity-promoting decoding.
Retrieval Ablations A key feature of RAG is learning to retrieve relevant information for the task.
To assess the effectiveness of the retrieval mechanism, we run ablations where we freeze the retriever
during training. As shown in Table 6, learned retrieval improves results for all tasks.
We compare RAG’s dense retriever to a word overlap-based BM25 retriever [53]. Here, we replace
RAG’s retriever with a ﬁxed BM25 system, and use BM25 retrieval scores as logits when calculating
p(z|x). Table 6 shows the results. For FEVER, BM25 performs best, perhaps since FEVER claims are
heavily entity-centric and thus well-suited for word overlap-based retrieval. Differentiable retrieval
improves results on all other tasks, especially for Open-Domain QA, where it is crucial.
Index hot-swapping An advantage of non-parametric memory models like RAG is that knowledge
can be easily updated at test time. Parametric-only models like T5 or BART need further training to
update their behavior as the world changes. To demonstrate, we build an index using the DrQA [5]
Wikipedia dump from December 2016 and compare outputs from RAG using this index to the newer
index from our main results (December 2018). We prepare a list of 82 world leaders who had changed
7

Table 4: Human assessments for the Jeopardy Table 5: Ratio of distinct to total tri-grams for
Question Generation Task. generation tasks.
Factuality Speciﬁcity
MSMARCO Jeopardy QGen
BART better 7.1% 16.8%
Gold 89.6% 90.0%
RAG better 42.7% 37.4%
BART 70.7% 32.4%
Both good 11.7% 11.8%
RAG-Token 77.8% 46.8%
Both poor 17.7% 6.9%
RAG-Seq. 83.5% 53.8%
No majority 20.8% 20.1%
Table 6: Ablations on the dev set. As FEVER is a classiﬁcation task, both RAG models are equivalent.
Model NQ TQA WQ CT Jeopardy-QGen MSMarco FVR-3 FVR-2
Exact Match B-1 QB-1 R-L B-1 Label Accuracy
RAG-Token-BM25 29.7 41.5 32.1 33.1 17.5 22.3 55.5 48.4
75.1 91.6
RAG-Sequence-BM25 31.8 44.1 36.6 33.8 11.1 19.5 56.5 46.9
RAG-Token-Frozen 37.8 50.1 37.1 51.1 16.7 21.7 55.9 49.4
72.9 89.4
RAG-Sequence-Frozen 41.2 52.1 41.8 52.6 11.8 19.6 56.7 47.3
RAG-Token 43.5 54.8 46.5 51.9 17.9 22.6 56.2 49.4
74.5 90.6
RAG-Sequence 44.0 55.8 44.9 53.4 15.3 21.5 57.2 47.5
between these dates and use a template “Who is {position}?” (e.g. “Who is the President of Peru?”)
to query our NQ RAG model with each index. RAG answers 70% correctly using the 2016 index for
2016 world leaders and 68% using the 2018 index for 2018 world leaders. Accuracy with mismatched
indices is low (12% with the 2018 index and 2016 leaders, 4% with the 2016 index and 2018 leaders).
This shows we can update RAG’s world knowledge by simply replacing its non-parametric memory.
Effect of Retrieving more documents Models are trained with either 5 or 10 retrieved latent
documents, and we do not observe signiﬁcant differences in performance between them. We have the
ﬂexibility to adjust the number of retrieved documents at test time, which can affect performance and
runtime. Figure 3 (left) shows that retrieving more documents at test time monotonically improves
Open-domain QA results for RAG-Sequence, but performance peaks for RAG-Token at 10 retrieved
documents. Figure 3 (right) shows that retrieving more documents leads to higher Rouge-L for
RAG-Token at the expense of Bleu-1, but the effect is less pronounced for RAG-Sequence.
44 80
56
43
70
54 RAG-TokR-L
42 RAG-TokB-1
60
52 RAG-SeqR-L
41 RAG-Tok
RAG-SeqB-1
50 RAG-Seq
40 50
RAG-Tok FixedDPR
RAG-Seq 40 BM25 48
39
10 20 30 40 50 10 20 30 40 50 10 20 30 40 50
KRetrievedDocs KRetrievedDocs KRetrievedDocs
Figure 3: Left: NQ performance as more documents are retrieved. Center: Retrieval recall perfor-
mance in NQ. Right: MS-MARCO Bleu-1 and Rouge-L as more documents are retrieved.
5 Related Work
Single-Task Retrieval Prior work has shown that retrieval improves performance across a variety of
NLP tasks when considered in isolation. Such tasks include open-domain question answering [5, 29],
fact checking [56], fact completion [48], long-form question answering [12], Wikipedia article
generation [36], dialogue [41, 65, 9, 13], translation [17], and language modeling [19, 27]. Our
work uniﬁes previous successes in incorporating retrieval into individual tasks, showing that a single
retrieval-based architecture is capable of achieving strong performance across several tasks.
8

General-Purpose Architectures for NLP Prior work on general-purpose architectures for NLP
tasks has shown great success without the use of retrieval. A single, pre-trained language model
has been shown to achieve strong performance on various classiﬁcation tasks in the GLUE bench-
marks [60, 61] after ﬁne-tuning [49, 8]. GPT-2 [50] later showed that a single, left-to-right, pre-trained
language model could achieve strong performance across both discriminative and generative tasks.
For further improvement, BART [32] and T5 [51, 52] propose a single, pre-trained encoder-decoder
model that leverages bi-directional attention to achieve stronger performance on discriminative
and generative tasks. Our work aims to expand the space of possible tasks with a single, uniﬁed
architecture, by learning a retrieval module to augment pre-trained, generative language models.
Learned Retrieval There is signiﬁcant work on learning to retrieve documents in information
retrieval, more recently with pre-trained, neural language models [44, 26] similar to ours. Some
work optimizes the retrieval module to aid in a speciﬁc, downstream task such as question answering,
using search [46], reinforcement learning [6, 63, 62], or a latent variable approach [31, 20] as in our
work. These successes leverage different retrieval-based architectures and optimization techniques to
achieve strong performance on a single task, while we show that a single retrieval-based architecture
can be ﬁne-tuned for strong performance on a variety of tasks.
Memory-based Architectures Our document index can be seen as a large external memory for
neural networks to attend to, analogous to memory networks [64, 55]. Concurrent work [14] learns
to retrieve a trained embedding for each entity in the input, rather than to retrieve raw text as in our
work. Other work improves the ability of dialog models to generate factual text by attending over
fact embeddings [15, 13]. A key feature of our memory is that it is comprised of raw text rather
distributed representations, which makes the memory both (i) human-readable, lending a form of
interpretability to our model, and (ii) human-writable, enabling us to dynamically update the model’s
memory by editing the document index. This approach has also been used in knowledge-intensive
dialog, where generators have been conditioned on retrieved text directly, albeit obtained via TF-IDF
rather than end-to-end learnt retrieval [9].
Retrieve-and-Edit approaches Our method shares some similarities with retrieve-and-edit style
approaches, where a similar training input-output pair is retrieved for a given input, and then edited
to provide a ﬁnal output. These approaches have proved successful in a number of domains including
Machine Translation [18, 22] and Semantic Parsing [21]. Our approach does have several differences,
including less of emphasis on lightly editing a retrieved item, but on aggregating content from several
pieces of retrieved content, as well as learning latent retrieval, and retrieving evidence documents
rather than related training pairs. This said, RAG techniques may work well in these settings, and
could represent promising future work.
6 Discussion
In this work, we presented hybrid generation models with access to parametric and non-parametric
memory. We showed that our RAG models obtain state of the art results on open-domain QA. We
found that people prefer RAG’s generation over purely parametric BART, ﬁnding RAG more factual
and speciﬁc. We conducted an thorough investigation of the learned retrieval component, validating
its effectiveness, and we illustrated how the retrieval index can be hot-swapped to update the model
without requiring any retraining. In future work, it may be fruitful to investigate if the two components
can be jointly pre-trained from scratch, either with a denoising objective similar to BART or some
another objective. Our work opens up new research directions on how parametric and non-parametric
memories interact and how to most effectively combine them, showing promise in being applied to a
wide variety of NLP tasks.
9

Broader Impact
This work offers several positive societal beneﬁts over previous work: the fact that it is more
strongly grounded in real factual knowledge (in this case Wikipedia) makes it “hallucinate” less
with generations that are more factual, and offers more control and interpretability. RAG could be
employed in a wide variety of scenarios with direct beneﬁt to society, for example by endowing it
with a medical index and asking it open-domain questions on that topic, or by helping people be more
effective at their jobs.
With these advantages also come potential downsides: Wikipedia, or any potential external knowledge
source, will probably never be entirely factual and completely devoid of bias. Since RAG can be
employed as a language model, similar concerns as for GPT-2 [50] are valid here, although arguably
to a lesser extent, including that it might be used to generate abuse, faked or misleading content in
the news or on social media; to impersonate others; or to automate the production of spam/phishing
content [54]. Advanced language models may also lead to the automation of various jobs in the
coming decades [16]. In order to mitigate these risks, AI systems could be employed to ﬁght against
misleading content and automated spam/phishing.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank the reviewers for their thoughtful and constructive feedback on this
paper, as well as HuggingFace for their help in open-sourcing code to run RAG models. The authors
would also like to thank Kyunghyun Cho and Sewon Min for productive discussions and advice. EP
thanks supports from the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship. PL is supported by the FAIR PhD
program.